>> Mike North: Let's look
at our first exercise here,
we're just gonna do a little warmup.
This is an exercise I give to just
JavaScript programmers a lot.
And we're gonna do it with these
primitive type annotations, and
we might get a chance to use a shape
as a type annotation as well.
So, if you start up your project,
if you check your code out,
install al of those dependencies,
follow the instructions in the read me.
You'll see that in the exercises
folder there is a sub
folder called color functions.
And the sub folders have exercises, right,
those are each individual projects that
we're gonna do throughout the day.
And you'll see that in
this color-utils.ts file
we're gonna need to create two functions,
rgbToHex and hexToRgb.
rgbToHex should take three 8 bit
color channels, those are numbers
having a value of between 0 and 255,
corresponding to red, green and blue.
And it should return
the corresponding hex string.
So if you have used any CSS colors before,
this is the kind of hex
string we're looking for.
hexToRgb should basically do
the conversion in the other direction it
takes as an argument either a 3 or
6-digit hex string.
And it returns an object with
the properties R, G and B,
corresponding to the red,
green, and blue color channels.
Both of these functions should be named
exports from the color-utils.ts module.
If you have a question about what
a named export means, raise your hand,
I'm happy to explain.
If you're watching this video course, this
is probably one of the things you should
look at some of like
Kyle Simpson's JavaScript videos for.
But we wanna be able to bring these
functions individually by name
into other files, named exports
are what we use in TypeScript,
this is the advised best practice.
I'm gonna give you some hints because the
point here is to work with TypeScript and
not worry about the actual color or
conversion stuff.
So converting a string to an integer,
of course you can use parseInt for
that, converting an integer into
its hexadecimal representation.
You will call on that number, you'll call
two string and pass it an argument of 16.
So you're saying give me the string
representation of this number in base 16,
right?
So that would give you for
124 it will give you 7c.
And then the third example here is in
the other direction it take 7c and
give me the decimal version of this.
So like the 124 in this case,
that's sort of from 0 to 255,
7c, that would be from 00 through FF, two
different ways of representing that color.
You should be able to run npm
test color-functions, and
you should see a bunch of
failing tests waiting for you.
Your job is to fill in those
functions that are missing and
make those failing tests pass.
And I'm just gonna give you since this
is the first exercise I wanna give you
a little kick off here.
So we'll go into our exercises folder,
we'll go into color functions,
source, color utils.
And you're gonna start with
something that looks like this.
>> Mike North: And your job is to
fill in those functions using type
annotations to make sure that only
the right stuff can be passed.
The way we'd run the test is
mpm test color functions.
>> Mike North: You should see,
>> Mike North: A bunch of failing tests.
So let's take 20 minutes, make sure
we're all set up, and that the project's
working for everyone, and make sure
you can get all these test to pass.
Whenever we're talking about passing
tests, you also wanna make sure,
particularly if you're using Visual Studio
code, that you see no problems down here.
So when TypeScript complains about,
like you're passing the wrong type
into this function and so on,
that's separate from a test failure but
we also wanna make sure that part of
our goal is to make sure the type system
is not complaining to us about anything.
So you can check this little indication
down here, this area for problems and
there's also a problems tab here,
or if I were to say, go tocopy.ts.
And replace what I had in there
with something like this,
let x = 15;
>> Mike North: You can see it's
saying type a5 is not
assignable to number.
So this is why I suggest
use Visual Studio Code or
something that has rich
TypeScript support I don't
know of anything better than Visual Studio
code for developing in TypeScript today.
So let's take 20 minutes and
we'll see you then for the solution.
I'm gonna show you a way that we can run
little snippets of TypeScript code and
see what the output will be cuz
this is a new programming language.
And we're using to being able to go into
a browser, or into Node or something, and
just write a couple of lines of code and
see what the output might be.
So there are two ways of doing that,
the first way I'm gonna show you,
I'm gonna go to TypeScript,
>> Mike North: typescriptlang.org,
this is the main TypeScript webpage.
And what they've got here is a playground.
And what you can do is on the left you can
write some TypeScript, and on the right,
it'll show you what the resultant
JavaScript would be.
And if you open up your console,
you can actually see
the output of that TypeScript.
All right, so
if we go to console clear that,
if we go like, let x = hello.
>> Mike North: Console log x and
we click run, well.
>> Mike North: It's gonna pop it up in
a new window, but if we inspect there,
we can see there's our hello,
so that's one way to do it.
This is the way to do it if
you're on an iPad or something,
or if you're sharing with someone
that doesn't have stuff installed.
I'll show you a great way to do
it inside Visual Studio Code,
so I have an extension
here called Code Runner.
This is great for
just running little bits of code like you
are basically going to say run this file.
So if you we were working in color
functions, we can put something at
the bottom that were gonna just test
the things out and just run this file.
So I've got cold runner there and
I'm going to see that tab open.
>> Mike North: I actually keep a little
scratch file just in a root of my project
and I get ignore it, I call mine two copy.
You can call yours the same actually
cuz it's in the get ignore two copy
anything it's gonna be ignore,
it won't check it in.
But I could do something like this
like let x = 15 console log x and what
that extension is added is this little
play button on the top right of my screen.
I can hit that and we can see, whoop,
I got an error, what's going on?
There it goes, I must have like
saved it half way through or
something, here's our 15
that was just logged out.
So you can do this not just
with this one file obviously,
but we could have gone to that exercise
we were using, we were writing with the.
You could have used the file
that you were working on and
basically run your own set of tests or
attempted to use your functions and
seen the output directly.
And then this gives you a way to
not have to just look at the test
pass-fail situation, but you can kind
of see what's going on in the middle.